# ATP Tennis Web-Scraping

The goal of this project is to better understand the general patterns and trends throughout the 2023 ATP tour top players. Specifically, we will be looking at the various court surfaces, tournament level, opponents, and match type to observe how these factors impact a player’s win-loss percentage. 

ATP website was scraped to obtain data for this project.

### Results

For the analysis portion of our project, we used an initial logistic regression model based off of all the variables we scraped and compared these to the overall win percentage of the player. Since we were able to inner join the data on each player, we were able to come up with a data set that did not have any null values making the logistic regression model efficient and accurate. The logistic regression output of the equation gave us varying levels of significance for each variable, with hard court win percentage having the least amount of significance with a p value of 0.9449 and right-handed opponents win percentage having the highest significance with a p value of  less than 0.0001. This significance could be based on most professional tennis players being right handed so the percentage of wins in the year 2023 against right handed opponents nearly matches exactly the overall win percentage. Another factor that had some significance, although at a much lower level, was player win percentage based on the result of the first set. These p values being significant at a 95% percent confidence level indicate that they are still very statistically significant. 

The second analysis we ran on our data was a scatter plot of the data based on overall wins and losses with the data broken down by which court type the player had the highest percentage on. With two out of four grand slams being played on hard court surfaces we expected to see a more hard court than grass and clay with a grouping of hard courts in the top 5 players. In the breakdown, we saw more players with a higher win percentage on clay than the other two surfaces with no real grouping being seen throughout the graph. Overall while our graph is visually appealing and shows the relationship between overall wins and losses there is not a correlation to how court type might affect a players performance and ranking. 

In terms of future research, it would be beneficial to look at all the factors available on the ATP website to see which other variables had an impact on win percentage. There are a lot of other important stats that can be shown on a player that are more in depth than general match performance, so this could be an interesting comparison. That would have to change the scope of the web scraping since ATP tour is limited in this data, but there are definitely other databases that have this relevant information. Second, this type of analysis could be applied  to lower levels of the sport as players make their way up the rankings. The analysis would probably show somewhat different patterns in what is deemed important from a statistical side. It would also have its own challenges as it is harder to collect high quality data at lower levels of any sport, because there are not are not as many resources there. Finally, the same exact analysis can be used on the women’s side of the sport (WTA). While it is the same sport and you would expect similar important variables, I would be interested to see where they converge. Mens and womens tennis is played differently, so factors that show these differences could be really interesting to explore. 

